p8105\_hw2\_by2287
================

## Problem 1

Read in & clean the trash-wheel dataset

``` r
trash_wheel = read_xlsx(
                  path = "./data/Trash-Wheel-Collection-Totals-8-6-19.xlsx", 
                  sheet = 1, 
                  skip = 1,
                  range = cell_cols("A:N")) %>% 
            janitor::clean_names() %>% 
          filter(dumpster != "NA") %>% 
            mutate(
              sports_balls = round(sports_balls),
              sports_balls = as.integer(sports_balls)
            ) 
```

The dataset trash\_wheel consists of 344 rows and 14 columns. It
includes columns that capture information on things like the total
amount of plastic\_bottles, grocery\_bags, sports\_balls collected by Mr
Trash Wheel, by year. For instance, the median sport balls collected by
My Trash Wheel in 2017 was 8.

Read in & clean the precipitation data for 2017 & 2018

``` r
precip_2017 = read_xlsx(
                  path = "./data/Trash-Wheel-Collection-Totals-8-6-19.xlsx", 
                  sheet = "2017 Precipitation",
                  skip = 1) %>% 
  janitor::clean_names() %>% 
  drop_na(month) %>% 
  mutate(year = 2017) %>% 
  relocate(year)


precip_2018 = read_xlsx(
                  path = "./data/Trash-Wheel-Collection-Totals-8-6-19.xlsx", 
                  sheet = "2018 Precipitation", 
                  skip = 1) %>% 
  janitor::clean_names() %>% 
  drop_na(month) %>% 
  mutate(year = 2018) %>% 
   relocate(year)
                  

precip_df = bind_rows(precip_2017, precip_2018)


precip_df = precip_df %>% 
      mutate(month = month.name[month])
```

The data set precip\_df, which contains the combined information of the
2017 & 2018 precipitation data, consists of 24 rows and 3 columns. It
contains information, on the year, month, and the corresponding total
precipitation. In the year 2017, the median precipitation was 2.14
whereas 2018 saw a median precipitation of 5.46.

## Problem 2

Read and clean the nyc\_transit data

``` r
nyc_transit = read_csv("./data/NYC_Transit_Subway_Entrance_And_Exit_Data.csv") %>% 
              janitor::clean_names() %>% 
              select(line, station_name, station_latitude, station_longitude, route1:route11, entry, vending, entrance_type, ada) %>% 
              mutate(
                entry = ifelse(entry == "YES", 1, 0)
                ) 
```

    ## Parsed with column specification:
    ## cols(
    ##   .default = col_character(),
    ##   `Station Latitude` = col_double(),
    ##   `Station Longitude` = col_double(),
    ##   Route8 = col_double(),
    ##   Route9 = col_double(),
    ##   Route10 = col_double(),
    ##   Route11 = col_double(),
    ##   ADA = col_logical(),
    ##   `Free Crossover` = col_logical(),
    ##   `Entrance Latitude` = col_double(),
    ##   `Entrance Longitude` = col_double()
    ## )

    ## See spec(...) for full column specifications.

The data set nyc\_transit is cleaner version of the
NYC\_Transit\_Subway\_Entrance\_And\_Exit\_Data. It consists of 1868
rows and 19 columns. It contains information on different subway
stations in New York City, and has, in it, variables such as: line,
station\_name, station\_latitude, station\_longitude, entrance\_type.
The cleaning steps includes, converting the variable names to
snake\_case, selecting only relevant variables, and re-coding the
`entry` variable from YES/NO to 1/0. In addition to these, it also
contains information on what routes they take, and whether or not the
stations are ADA compliant. These data are tidy.

From the nyc\_transit data set, we can tell that there are 465 distinct
stations. Of those distinct stations, 84 are ADA compliant.

\#What proportion of station entrances / exits without vending allow
entrance? The proportion of station entrances / exits without vending
that allow entrance is: 9.6774194

Reformat data so that route number and route name are distinct
variables. How many distinct stations serve the A train? Of the stations
that serve the A train, how many are ADA compliant?

81, 91, 49, 28, 3, 1615, 1
